Long before the rise of Darth Sidious and
Vader, in the age of the Old Republic, a human
was born in the Outer Rim of the galaxy.
A male child with force sensitivity, discovered
at an early age and accepted into the Jedi
Order.
This young man would grow into a powerful
Jedi Knight, trained by a number of wise Masters
within the order providing a bounty of information
to feed his insatiable hunger for knowledge,
Taught by so many varied and experienced mentors
like
Masters Kreia, Master Zhar Lestin, Master
Dorak and Arren Kae
He learned about Force Bonds and many other
uncommon subejects.
As a Padawan, he befriended another powerful
force user named Alek, rising to the rank
of Jedi Knight together, though all considered
Alek the lesser of the two.
The young Jedi also gained popularity through
his natural charisma and charm, skills which
became of great use to him throughout his
future endeavors.
In the year 3964 Before the Battle of Yavin,
The Mandalorian Neo Crusaders attacked the
Outer Rim world of Vanquo, the first major
attack against a Republic protected world,
though they had been conquering non republic
worlds for over a decade.
This would begin a series of invasions bringing
the Mandalorian wars directly into Republic
territories.
And while the government responded by sending
the galactic fleet to counter Mandalorean
Advances, the Jedi did not involve themselves,
with the council believing they should not
engage the war.
As a young Jedi Knight, the former apprentice
of Master Kreia stood in opposition to the
Council, believing it was their moral duty
to help those now suffering at the hands of
the Mandaloreans.
The passion with which he spoke on the issue
started to make him a media celebrity, earning
him the nickname Crusader, described as a
lone Jedi defying the stubborn council, and
working to save the suffering masses.
His friend Alek was the first to join in his
efforts, but they were soon joined by other
jedi, persuaded by the Crusader’s arguments.
No longer willing to plead for the council’s
authority, The Crusader and his followers
went on a scouting mission to assess the situation.
Alek and the others were then left on the
planet Suurja, while the Crusader investigate
Onderon and its moon Dxun.
Yet during their separation, Mandalorians
captured those on Suurja, bringing them to
the planet Flashpoint, where the scientist
Demagol experimented on jedi.
The Crusader, discovering their capture, returned
to the Council to inform them of all he had
learned and was given authority to rescue
his followers.
But it proved unnecessary, as a former Jedi
Padawan named Zayne Carrick was able to free
them, while he rescuing a friend who had also
been captured and brought to the facility.
When the Crusader was reunited with his followers,
they returned to the Core, and found that
they were more popular than ever.
The Revanchist* movement as it was known,
had grown to see the Crusader, as their courageous
and intractable leader.
Embracing the role, he took on the name of
Revanchist and continued to fight for the
council to authorize their participation in
the war.
Helping his arguments, was the story of the
planet Cathar, once a thriving alien world,
which the Revanchist argued had been attacked
by the Mandaloreans a decade earlier, explaining
why everyone on the planet had suddenly vanished.
In addition there was the Battle of Serroco,
where Mandalore the Ultamite, leader of the
Neo Crusaders, unleashed nuclear weapons against
his enemies, wiping out the world’s cities
and population.
Yet the Council still refused to enter the
war, even issuing arrest warrants for the
Revanchist and his followers.
Alek, now going by the name Malak to avoid
arrest, risked capture by returning to Coruscant
and the Jedi Council, testifying on the behalf
of his friend Zayne Carrick, who had rescued
him from Flashpoint, and who was falsely accused
of crimes against the Jedi.
When his testimony was concluded, he was not
arrested, but instead allowed to leave with
a final message of warning to the Revanchist,
demanding that he cease his unsanctioned activities
and return to the Core.
Malak then travelled to Cathar were his people
continued to investigate the disappearance
of their population only to discover that
he had been followed by a party of Jedi who
descended onto Cathar and Chastised the rebels,
demanding their disbandment.
Yet as they argued, the Revanchist found a
mandalorian mask, hidden under the sand, and
as he picked it up, all of the Jedi present
had a shared vision of the past, seeing the
Cathar population hearded towards the sea
by attacking Mandaloreans under Cassus Fett.
When a lone female Mandalorean attempted to
plead for their lives, Cassus told her they
had to die, for dishonoring the Mandalorians
decades earlier during the Great Sith War.
And so the army opened fire, killing all of
the Cathar who lined the beach as well as
the female Mandalorean, who stood with them
in the end.
When the Vision ended, the Revanchist realized
this was the courageous woman’s mask, and
so put it on, taking on the name of Revan
and vowing to wear the mask until all Mandalorians
were brought to justice for their crimes.
Having witnessed the atrocity themselves,
the Jedi who had come on the Council’s behalf
were no longer able to adequately defend their
position of non intervention, and while the
council still refused to enter the war completely,
they were persuaded by Revan into a compromise,
which deputized a small Mercy Corps as part
of the Republic military, allowing for individual
Jedi to join the war effort without need for
the council to authorize the entire Jedi Order’s
involvement.
This Mercy Corps fell under the command of
Revan himself, who led them to a number of
early victories, proving an excellent strategist
and military mind.
After their participation in the Battle of
Duro in 3962 BBY, Revan and Malak were praised
for their efforts, with Revan promoted to
Supreme Commander, and given control of 1/3rd
of Republic forces.
Yet as the war dragged on, both Revan and
Malack became more detached from the horrors
and atrocities being commited.
And started making cold, calculating decisions,
often matching the brutal tactics of the Mandaloreans,
with a policy of achieving victory at all
costs.
During the course of the war, Revan and Malak
discovered an ancient Rakata* ruin on Dantooine,
passing a series of tests by droid guarding
to be allowed access to the inner chamber.
Malak, sensing that this was a turning point
for them, warned Revan that the Council may
banish them for entering, but he continued
on and so malak followed.
Within the ruins they found a star map, revealing
part of the location to a space station called
the Star Forge.
Intrigued, Revan investigated further, discovering
another star map on the planet of Kashyyk
and even visiting the Sith homeworld of Korriban
seeking more information.
Eventually he discovered the Trayus Academy,
an ancient sith academy within the planet
of Malachor V, all the while teaching his
new found knowledge to his friend Malak, slowly
turning both to the dark side.
Revan and Malak, now under the influence of
the Dark Side, continued to fight for the
Republic against the Mandaloreans, freeing
captives in the Taris Undercity, and battling
Cassus Fett in Jaga’s Cluster.
No longer concerned with Republic casualities,
Revan ordered his forces under Jedi Knight
General Meetra Surik, to attack Onderon and
Dxun, using a astrategy that left 10 republic
soldiers killed for every mandalorian.
Yet Revan’s ruthless cunning took a toll
on his hated enemies, leading to a campaign
on Althir III which destroyed a large part
of the Mandalorian army.
By 3960 BBY Revan had commissioned the creation
a superweapon called the Mass Shadow Generator,
built by Zabrak engineer named Bao Dur.
Determined to end the Mandalorian threat once
and for all, he laid a trap for them at Malachor
V, sending heavy republic forces to lure them
into a final confrontation.
When Revan arrived at the battle, Mandalore
the Ultamite challenged him to single combat,
and so they duelled aboard the Mandalore’s
ship where Revan struck him down.
Yet as the Mandalore lay dying, he removed
his mask, saying that he had been manipulated
into starting this war by a red skinned Sith,
and suggesting Revan travel to the planet
Rekkiad to confirm the story.
After his death, Revan took the Mandalore’s
mask as a war prize, and understood he must
learn the truth behind the man’s final words.
As the battle raged on, General Meetra Surik
obeyed orders and activated the Mass Shadow
Generator, creating an enormous gravitational
force, pulling nearly all surrounding ships,
directly onto Malachor’s surface, destroying
the planet and its population.
Though it came at a heavy cost to the Republic,
the Mandalorean Neo Crusaders were crushed
into defeat, with the last survivors quickly
offering their unconditional surrender.
Conveniently, many of the Jedi and Republic
officers who died at malachor V were noted
critics of Revan’s policies who were now
unable to continue their opposition.
The Mandaloreans were stripped of their weapons
and armor, and with their people scattered
and culture devastated, many turned to bounty
hunting and mercenary work.
After the war, Revan continued down his dark
path, completing construction of an assassin
droid designated HK 47, using it to stealthily
eliminate opponents rather than confront them
openly.
And while the former Supreme Commander quickly
moved on from the tragedy at Malachor V, back
on Coruscant the Jedi Council was outraged,
believing his actions monstrous and demanding
that Revan, Malak and Meetra Surik return
to face punishment for their crimes.
Meetra, whose Force powers were suppressed
after the trauma of sensing so many lost lives
on Malachor, was the only one of the three
to obey the council and return to face judgement,
resulting in her exile from the Order.
Revan and Malak meanwhile, ignored the council
and travelled to Rekkiad, investigating the
deceased Mandalores claims, finding the tomb
Sith Lord Dramath the Second and a datacron
revealing the location of the planet Nathema
where they might continue their search for
the truth.
But before leaving Rekkiad, Revan hid the
Mask of Mandalore, within the tomb of the
deceased Sith Lord.
Continuing their investigation, they discovered
Nathema was completely barren of the force,
learning about a powerful Sith Lord who lived
during the Great Hyperspace war of 5000BBY,
surviving the Jedi and Republic victory, and
gathering remaining sith Lords upon Nathema
to conduct a powerful dark side ritual.
But what Sith Lord Vitiate failed to mention,
was that the ritual would destroy all life
on the planet, using their force energy to
make himself immortal.
Vitiate then led the last of his followers
to the forgotten world of Drummond Kaas and
re-established the Sith Empire in this isolated
region, with himself as Emperor.* Revan and
malak soon came to realize that it was this
long forgotten Sith Emperor who had been manipulating
the galaxy from the shadows, using Mandalore
the Ultamite to wage war against the Republic,
as a test of the ruling government’s strength,
and as a prelude to invasion.
They then decided to assassinate Vitiate themselves,
rather than warn the republic of his plans,
infiltrating the palace with the help of a
guard named Yarri, only to discover it was
a trap, with the Emperor using his powers
to enter their minds and turn them to his
cause.
Initiating them into the Sith Order, they
were hence forth known as Darth Revan and
Darth Malak, sent back to Conquer the Republic
in the name of the Emperor.
To aid them in their mission, they were told
to make use of the Star Forge, an automated
shipyard, providing them with an unending
supply of ships, droids and many other machines
of war.
As Revan prepared for his invasion of the
Republic, he recorded a holocron, filling
it with his personal thoughts on the darkside
and the relationship between master and apprentice.
This device was left on the planet Lehon and
was discovered thousands of years later by
Darth Bane, proving crucial in his development
of the Rule of Two philosophy which fundamentally
transformed the Sith Order.
Once in possession of the Star Forge, Revan
and Malak broke free of the Emperor’s control,
proclaiming themselves leaders of a new Sith
Empire, with Revan as Master and Malak as
apprentice.
They then re-established a Sith Academy upon
Korriban, training a new generation of Sith
Lords to serve under their command.
With most remembering Revan and malak as Jedi
heroes who defeated the mandaloreans, and
few seeing a difference between the Jedi and
Sith order, the approaching conflict came
to be known as the Jedi Civil War, seeing
the first battle fought at Foerost in 3958
BBY, when the new Sith Empire attacked an
important Republic shipyard, capturing a large
portion of their fleet.
Yet Revan’s strategy called for more than
direct military engagement, ordering the assassination
of many prominent Republic figures, in order
to cripple their leadership while keeping
the military and political structure of government
intact so he might easily assume power when
victory was complete.
Outraged by Revan’s treachery, the Echani
General Yusanis challenged him to single combat,
but was ultimately defeated and killed by
the Dark Lord.
Revan then continued with his grand plan.
focusing heavily on capturing Jedi, in order
to torture and turn them to the dark side.
In addition the he allied with the Czerka
corporation, offering them an exclusive contract
with the Sith Empire.
And while the invasion of the Republic was
proceeding well, a rift began to develop between
the more strategic Revan and his apprentice
Malak who valued brute strength.
Their disagreement over how to fight the war,
led Malak to see his master’s actions as
signs of weakness.
This insult led to a duel between them, wherein
Revan struck Malak down, removing the man’s
jaw with a strike of his lightsaber.
The Sith apprentice survived, but was forced
to wear a prosthesis for the rest of his life.
And while Revan had momentarily regained control,
his dream of ruling a united Sith empire soon
came to an end, when a republic trap in the
outer rim, led to a Jedi invasion of his ship,
soon becoming surrounded by his light side
enemies.
Revan, undettered, was prepared to fight them
all, but his apprentice malak sensing the
situation, and eager to become the new Dark
Lord of the Sith, betrayed his master, launching
a devastating attack.
As the ship came under fire, the Jedi Bastilla
Shan used the chaos of the moment to knock
Revan unconscious, fleeing from the ship together
and using her abilities to create a force
bond between them.
Revan was then taken to Dantooine, where the
Jedi Council healed his wounds, but also performed
a ritual to wipe his mind of all memories,
giving him a new identity as a Republic Soldier,
so his skills might serve to defeat the Sith
Empire he once ruled.
As a republic soldier, the man formerly known
as revan was assigned to the ship Endar Spire,
placed under the command of Jedi Padawan Bastila
Shan.
But it was not long before the ship came under
attack by the new Dark Lord of the sith Darth
Malak.
As the ship was boarded, most made their way
to escape pods, but Revan and his bunkmate
Trask Ulgo stayed behind, searching for their
commander to ensure her safety, only to discover
she had already left the ship.
They then encountered Darth Bandon, the new
sith apprentice of Dark Lord Malak, and Trask
so selflessly sacrificed himself, attacking
Bandon and sealing the door behind him, in
the hopes of buying Revan time to escape.
Revan was then contacted by Captain Carth
Onasi, informing him that they were the last
2 on board, then escaping together, only to
crash land on the nearby planet of Taris.
Taking refuge in the South Apartment of the
Upper city, they embarked on a mission to
find Bastila Shan and return to the service
of the republic.
During their time on the planet, they befriended
a Twilek woman named Mission Zao, helping
her rescue Zaalbar, her wookie companion,
who was so grateful he swore a lifedebt, joining
Revan in his travels, with Zao following close
behind.
They finally found Bastila Shan held in a
cage unconscious by a criminal named Brejik
of the Black Vulkars, who held her as a prize
to be awarded to the winner of swoop bike
race, which revan entered and won.
Yet the plan ultimately failed and was about
to turn violent when Shan awoke and emerged
from the cage, attacking her captors.
Revan and Shan fought side by side and were
victorious, reuniting with Carth Onasi and
the others to figure out a way off the planet.
And so they made a deal with a mandalorian
named Canderous Ordo to steal the ship Ebon
Hawk so they might escape.
Revan then purchased a T3-M4 droid to help
in the mission, and the group proved successful,
taking the ship off planet and into hyperspace.
Bastila then ordered that they travel to Dantooine,
where Revan had a private meeting with the
Jedi Council, who continued to hold back the
secret of his origins, but could not deny
his ever increasing force capabilities.
They also told him the strange dreams and
shared visions he’d been having had created
a force bond with Bastilla Shan, who, though
a Padawan herself, was tasked with observing
his Jedi training, to ensure he did not return
to the dark side.
After several weeks, the Padawans were sent
to investigate nearby ruins, where a vision
revealed Revan once visited with Malak.
Passing the required tests, they gained access
to the inner chamber and found a part of a
star map, which mentioned several other planets
where the rest of the map could be found.
This was how Revan and Malak discovered the
Star Forge, which allowed them to build their
Sith Empire.
Returning to the council, they were then assigned
to locating the rest of the map fragments,
so they might find Malak and destroy his Empire.
Before leaving Dantooine, they were joined
by Jedi Knight Juhani who joined their crew.
Eager to serve Revan after he selflessly helped
her during his time on the planet.
They then travelled to Tatooine, where Revan
bought a droid designated HK 47 to join his
crew as they recovered the next piece of the
star map.* Yet after its retrieval they were
confronted by the bounty hunter Calo Nord,
who was hired by Malak to find Revan and his
people.
With the Dark Lord now aware of Revan’s
survival.
The Jedi Padawan and his crew then defeated
the Bounty Hunter, leaving Tatooine and travelling
to the wookie planet of Kashyyyk.
There Revan met a grey jedi named Jolee Bindo,
who recognized the former sith lord, but did
not reveal what he knew.
Bindo then joined Revan’s crew and helped
him find the Star Map on the planet.
Moving on to the planet of Manaan, the Jedi
Padawan came to participate in a murder trial,
representing an old friend of Bindo named
Sunry, attempting to help his defense.
Afterwhich they recovered the next star map
fragment only to be attacked by Darth Banon
and his minions.
Revan engaged the Sith apprentice and struck
him down, then leaving the planet, headed
for Korriban to find the final piece of the
Star Map.
Yet as they made their way to the sith homeworld,
the Ebon Hawk was attacked and captured by
the Imperial ship Leviathan, led by Saul Karath,
Carth onasi’s former republic commander,
now serving the Sith Empire.
And while Revan was tortured for information,
he never broke, and was eventually rescued
along with the rest of his crew by one of
his companions who had stayed behind, and
hid from Imperial forces waiting for the right
time to come to their aid.
And so Revan, Shan and Onasi confronted Karath
on the bridge of his ship, killing the man
and his guards.
But as he lay dying he whispered a secret
to Carth Onasi, informing him of Revan’s
true identity.
Though stunned, Onasi did not reveal what
he learned and so they continued their escape
until intercepted by Darth malak who had just
arrived, confronting his former Sith Master
and at last revealing the truth behind Revan’s
identity.
They then engaged in a duel, where Revan proved
a stronger warrior, but Malak, was able to
use his force powers to overcome Revan’s
superior fighting skills, and nearly killed
him, but was stopped by Bastila Shan, who
took over the battle, sacrificing her self
so he might escape.
And while he desperately wanted to save her,
he and Onasi barely managed to escape with
their own live, returning to the Ebon Hawk
and informing them of all that occurred.
To Revan’s surprise, they all were able
to accept the truth of his past, realizing
he was not the same man anymore.
Continuing on to Korriban, Revan and Bindo
posed as sith recruits, in order to enter
the Academy and gain access to restricted
areas.
Revan then located the final star map fragment
within the tomb of an ancient dark lord, and
had to fight his way to the Ebon Hawk, after
it was discovered he was not a sith.
With the Star Map now complete, the Ebon Hawk
followed it to the Unknown regions, where
they found the Star Forge surrounded by the
Sith Fleet, sending the coordinates to the
Republic.
But the ship was soon spotted and forced to
land on the nearby planet of Lehon where Revan
came to be confronted by Bastila Shan, his
former Jedi Master, now the Sith apprentice
of Darth Malak.
Revan learned that she’d been defeated by
Malak during their duel, then captured and
tortured until she fell to the dark side.
Bastila engaged Revan but proved unable to
defeat him, fleeing the confrontation.
The former dark lord then returned to Ebon
Hawk and participated in a coordinated attack
with Republic forces, boarding the Star Forge
directly, where Revan once again engaged Bastila
Shan, defeating her 3 times, until she begged
him to end her suffering.
But he refused to kill her, instead convincing
her to return to the light side, and expressing
his feeling of love for her, which she returned.
Revan then moved on to confront Darth Malak,
at last defeating his former apprentice* and
striking him down.
With the war all but over, Revan and his crew
were invited to Lehon where they were greeted
as heroes.
For his efforts, Revan received the Cross
of Glory, known to be the highest possible
honor within the republic.
After the destruction of the Star Forge and
defeat of Darth Malak, the remnants of the
Sith Empire turned against each other, allowing
for the Republic to defeat and scatter the
last of their forces.
With the war over, Revan and Bastila Shan
both turned down offers to return to their
training within the Jedi Order, instead getting
married and retiring from public life, taking
t3m4 and HK47 to live with them in an apartment
on Coruscant.
Revan felt that his knowledge of the force
and the relationship between the dark and
light side gave him a unique perspective far
beyond that of a Jedi padawan.
He also came to realize that emotions and
relationships could prove a source a strength,
like when his wife Bastila was pulled back
from the darkside through their love for each
other.
And so Revan took this new understanding of
the force to the Jedi Council, in the hopes
of teaching them what he’d learned.
But they outright rejected his ideas, with
some even threatening to banish Revan from
the Order entirely.
In the end they feared the public outcry over
banishing a republic hero, and so allowed
Revan and Bastila to remain members of the
Jedi order on the condition that they keep
their beliefs and marriage private, making
no efforts to spread their teachings.
Revan did not want to fight with the council
and so agreed to their terms.
Although Revan was happy in his new life,
he became haunted with nightmares of a planet
covered by storms.
Revan still had not recovered all the memories
he’d lost after the ritual performed by
the Jedi Council, but he came to believe these
dreams were related to his past and the journey
he’d taken with Malak into the uncharted
areas of the galaxy after the Mandalorian
Wars.
He then contacted his old friend Canderous
Ordo and met with him to discuss the dreams
and find out any information he could about
Mandalore the Ultamite and his reasons for
invading the Republic.
Revan believed that it might in some way be
connected to the war waged by Revan and Malak
when they returned to the known galaxy as
sith Lords.
After their meeting Revan wished to contact
his old friend Meetra Surik travelling to
the Jedi Archives in search of information.
There he was confronted by Jedi Master Atris,
who informed him of Meetra’s fate, having
cut herself off from the Force after the battle
of Malachor V and her exile from the Order
when she returned to face judgement.
Revan was deeply saddened by what he learned
and left the temple, unsure if he’d ever
see his old friend again.
Less than a month later, Canderous contacted
Revan and revealed that the Mandalorian Clans
were gathering upon the planet of Rekkiad,
searching for the Mask of their fallen leader
Mandalore the Ultamite, so that a new ruler
might take his place and unify their people.
Revan understanding the threat a united Mandalorian
army might pose, made plans with Canderous
to travel to Rekkiad and join in the search.
Revan hoped that that Bastila would join them
on the mission but when he returned home he
discovered she was pregnant, and soon they
were arguing about Revan wanting to leave
them to go on this dangerous mission.
In the end, he convinced Bastila that his
visions were related to sense a larger threat
looming and it was his duty to investigate
and stop it if he can, so that their child
might live a long life of peace.
After spending one last night with his wife,
Revan along with t3m4 joined Canderous and
boarded the Ebon Hawk, journeying to Rekkiad
where the Mandalorian reunited with his people
in Clan Ordo.
In order to hide his identity, Revan was introduced
to them as a mercenary named Avner who’d
come to help them find the mask.
Revan then met a proud and ferocious woman
named Veela Ordo, leader of the clan and wife
of Canderous.
After experiencing more dreams and memories
of his past, Revan realized Clan Ordo was
searching in the wrong area of the planet,
and so Canderous convinced them to move, engaging
in battle with another clan to claim the new
area.
Revan then led a group of them to find the
tomb of the ancient sith lord Dramath the
Second, and there recovered the mask of mandalore.
Unfortunately Veela then turned against Revan,
claiming she knew his true identity, and the
Mandalorians attack.
Canderous was forced to choose between his
wife and friend, ultimately shooting Veela
through the chest.
Canderous then stood silently near the bodies
for a time, before he and Revan gave them
a proper burial.
Having also discovered a datacron in the tomb
of the sith lord, Revan decided he must next
travel to the planet Nathema to learn more
about his own past.
And rather then ask Canderous to join him,
he instead told the Mandalorian to claim the
mask of Mandalore for himself, so that he
might unify the clans and prepare them to
defend the republic from whatever outside
threat was approaching.
In this way they might regain the honor lost
from their war of aggression.
Canderous agreed and took up the mask, becoming
mandalore the Preserver and the two went their
separate ways, each determined to see their
task completed.
Revan and t3m4 then took the Ebon Hawk to
Nathema, where he became overwhelmed by visions
and flashbacks.
Unfortunately Darth Nyriss and Lord Scourge
of the Drumond Kass based Sith Empire were
already present in the area when he arrived.
Attacking the Ebon Hawk and forcing it to
crash land on the planet.
Recovering his injured body, Nyriss recognized
Revan as one of the men captured by the Emperor
years earlier.
And came to suspect he’d been twisted to
the Emperor’s will, then sent back to the
republic on a mission.
Nyriss was member of sith faction planning
to overthrow their leader, and was therefore
intrigued by the possibility Revan had somehow
overcome the Emperor’s influence, locking
him away on Dromund Kass, to be interrogated
and tortured by Scourge for information.
The Dark Lord quickly realized Revan honestly
did not remember much of his own past and
so Nyriss lost interest over time, but Scourge
did not, fascinated by the human’s power
and experiences.
As a result the two often spoke, exchanging
their insights into the force.
During his incarceration, Revan lied to Scourge,
telling him he’d seen a vision of the future
where he would be released from prison.
And though Scourge was skeptical he knew Revan
had unique and impressive powers, and so did
not discount the possibility.
Revan was kept drugged at all times to suppress
his use of the force, but in time began to
develop an immunity, summoning small amounts
of force energy to attempt contacting his
wife.
But instead he was granted a vision of his
old friend Meetra Surik, realizing she would
be the one coming to his rescue.
For 3 years, Revan was imprisoned on Drumond
Kass, during which time his loyal droid t3m4
managed to repair the ebon hawk and fly it
off Nathema and into galactic space where
it was found by Meetra Surik.
The former Jedi, undergoing her own journey
of redemption and self-acceptance, had been
slowly learning to use the force again while
working with a number of old allies and friends
of Revan to defeat a new threat to facing
the galaxy.
The last remnant of the Sith Empire under
Revan and Malak had been united under Darth
Traya, Sion and Nihilus, but were ultamitely
defeated by Meetra and her allies.
She then left republic space determined to
find Revan and help him in any way possible.
Finding t3m4, the droid played a video for
Surik, showing her the red skinned sith who’d
taken Revan from Nathema.
And so she followed his trail to Dromund Kass
and made inquiries, alerting Scrouge who met
her with and a party of armed soldiers.
When he learned she was a jedi, he came to
realize that Revan’s vision of rescue was
coming true and so merely watched as Meetrak
killed the soldiers, then offering to ally
together.
Meetra was skeptical, but eventually agreed
and so Scourge went to the Emperor, revealing
that Nyriss was part of a plot against him
along with other members of the Dark council.
This led the emperor to send his forces to
raid the fortress where Revan was being held,
distracting the guard and allowing for Meetra
and Scourge to make their way to the prison
cell.
There they found Revan and two soldiers of
Nyriss, who’d been convinced by the former
Sith Lord to switch sides.
Scourge gave Revan the antidote to remove
the effects of the mind numbing drugs supressing
his powers while Meetra, overjoyed at seeing
her old mentor once more, presented his mask.
But when Revan took it, all of the memories,
so long surpressed in his mind came rushing
back, incapacitating him and causing him to
collapse on the ground.
Unfortunately Nyriss then arrived, murdering
the 2 soldiers, and using her powerful darkside
abilities to defeat Scourge and Meetra.
But just as she prepared to finish them off,
taunting them with her power, Revan rose from
the ground wearing his mask and declared “I
am Revan reborn.
And before me you are nothing.”
Nyriss then launched a massive burst of purple
lightening towards them, which Revan absorbed
and reversed consuming her in lightning storm
until all that remained was a pile of ash.
Retreating back to a safe location, Scourge,
Meetra, Revan and T3m4 planned to continue
in their attempts to assassinate the Emperor.
They decided to pose as associates of Scourge,
who would use his position to bully the guards
into allowing him an audience with the emperor.
And once the doors were open they would attack.
However when they put the plan into motion,
Revan was recognized by the Guard Yarri who’d
been part of the plot to capture him three
years earlier.
And so Meetra and Scourge were forced to stay
behind battling the guards outside the main
chamber, while Revan ran in determined to
kill the Emperor.
The former Jedi and Sith Lord made a valiant
effort, able to use his knowledge of the light
and dark side to pose a serious threat, even
surprising the emperor with his abilities.
But the Sith once known as Vitiate was more
powerful than anyone Revan had ever faced,
and overcame him with a powerful darkside
lightening attack, that might have killed
him, if not for T3M4 who charged against the
Emperor, attacking him with a flamethrower.
And while he succeeded in distracting the
enemy and saving his master, Vitiate immediately
destroyed the droid.
Scourge and Meetra, having finished with the
others then rushed to Revan’s side, and
the three prepared to charge against the Emperor.
But then suddenly Scourge was struck by a
force vision, and all became clear.
Revan was not the one who would destroy the
Emperor.
That task was to be completed by another,
and Scourge must be alive to help in that
future effort.
And so as Meetra and Revan stepped forward,
Scourge stepped to the side, stabbing Meetra
through the heart, killing her instantly.
Revan, distracted and distraught by her death
was then left vulnerable to the Emperor who
crippled him with an attack.
After the battle, his defeated but still living
body was taken to a specially constructed
prison within Maelstrom Station, kept alive
by machines and sith Alchemy.
Scourge meanwhile, claimed he was only pretending
to be with jedi, using that position to lure
them to the Emperor, who he believed was the
only one powerful enough to defeat Revan.
Vitiate was satisfied with this response,
and rewarded Scourge by making him the Emperor’s
Wrath, in charge of executing the enemies
of the Emperor.
He was also granted Immortality through a
dark side ritual, which gave him eternal life
at a cost of keeping his body in constant
and unending pain.
However Scourge would eventually grow numb
to the agony, as well as emotions becoming
singularly focused to act as weapon of the
Emperor.
For 300 years, Revan was held as a prisoner,
tortured savagely and used as a source of
force energy for the emperor, even linking
minds to learn all he could about the Republic
and their defenses.
During the years of torment, Revan was given
comfort and support by the force ghost of
Meetra Surik, who’d stayed with Revan after
her death.
With her help and through the power of his
will, Revan was able to reverse the mental
connection, allowing him to influence the
Emperor in small ways, but enough to prevent
him from launching a war against the Republic
for centuries.
In this way, Revan could ensure his wife and
son lived out their lives in peace.
During the 300 hundred years of Revan’s
imprisonment, his legend remained strong throughout
the galaxy, with a secret society dedicated
using his teachings to change the Empire forming
on Drumond Kass.
The Emperor meanwhile, discovered a darkside
ritual known as essence transfer, and abandoned
his physical form in favor of moving his consciousness
through various host bodies, corrupting them
with his dark side powers and then discarding
one for another.
The body which he chose to inhabit became
known as the Emperor’s Voice.
Yet even with all his power Vitiate was unsatisfied
with life as a Sith Emperor, seeing past the
dogma and doctrine to understand the force
was more than what the Sith or even Jedi believed.
He then heard about a force known as the Eternal
Fleet, an armada of automated ships which
wreaked havoc in Wild Space.
Leaving a part of himself behind to control
the Emperor’s Voice, his consciousness went
in search of the Eternal fleet, eventually
travelling into the unknown regions, and finding
the planet of Zakuul.
Here the Emperor took over the body of a warrior
named Valkorion, and used him to create a
new Empire, built without the constraints
of jedi and sith philosophies.
An Eternal Empire, ruled by an immortal Emperor,
who trained the Knights of zakkul, a new class
of Force wielding warriors armed with lighsaber
pikes, and trained to see the force as a tool
for justice and nothing more, used only to
enforce the law.
The being once known as Vitiate ruled both
the Sith Empire under the Emperor’s Voice
and the Eternal Empire under Valkorion at
the same time, splitting his attention between
them.
For three centuries the galaxy was afforded
peace through Revan’s suffering, but the
Emperor eventually went through with his original
plans, invading the republic in 3681 BBY,
initiating the Great Galactic War.
To his disappointment the Sith Empire was
unable to achieve a quick victory, and so
the war dragged on for 28 years, until Revan’s
influence at last convinced the Emperor to
end hostilities.
And so in 3653 BBY, Sith representatives met
with republic officials on Alderaan to discuss
terms, while imperial forces simultaneously
invaded and sacked Coruscant, allowing for
the delegation on Alderaan to demand the surrender
of the Republic.
And so they signed the treaty of Coruscant
declaring the Empire victorious.
Though the war was over with the republic
forced to make several territorial concessions,
the galaxy was still divided between the two
powers, leading to years of cold war.
Always seeking more power and terrified of
death, the Emperor began to have notions of
a new dark side ritual which would wipe out
all life in the galaxy, leaving him to rule
in the void, unchallenged and immortal.
Although Revan suffered greatly, he believed
his imprisonment was essential to keeping
the Emperor subdued.
But the force ghost of Meetra Surik knew her
mentor and friend was withering away, and
could not control the Emperor forever.
And so she left him for a time to visit Jedi
master Oteg of the Repubic, convincing him
to organize a strike team, rescuing Revan
from his prison.
Meetra having done her duty, gave Revan some
final words of advice and encouragement, before
finding peace and becoming one with the force.
The former Sith Lord, then proceeded to inform
the jedi high council of all he knew concerning
the Imperial threat, before setting out to
find his old droid hk47.
He also was able to recover his mask from
the Order of Revan on Drumond Kaas, but chose
not to associate with them, because their
reverence was unnerving.
And so he made his way to the Foundry, an
Ancient Rakatan manufacturing facility whose
location he’d known for many years, but
was able to shield from the Emperor during
the years of torture.
Revan, determined to end the Sith threat once
and for all, then began building an army of
extermination droids designed to wipe out
everyone of Sith ancestry throughout the galaxy.
But the Emperor learned of his plans and sent
a team of elite warriors which made their
way through the facility, destroying HK47
before confronting Revan and slaying him in
a final battle.
Revan’s long and complicated life, saw him
embrace both the light and darksides of the
force, and so when at last he died, his spirit
split in two, with his light side half desiring
to become one with the force, while his dark
side half clung to the physical world, remaining
attached to his body.
Fueled by his hatred for the Emperor and desire
for vengeance.
Darkside Revan then decided to embrace the
Revanites of Drumond Kass, taking direct control
of the order and turning them into an extremist
and fanatical cult.
Under his leadership, they managed to infiltrate
both the Empire and Republic, placing many
of their agents in positions of power.
Ordering the creation of an infinite army,
the Revanites began implanting Rakatan technology
into organics bodies, creating powerful cyborg
warrior.
However the project was destroyed in its early
stages by both Republic and Imperial forces.
Learning that the Emperor’s consciousness
was in hiding on Yavin 4, Darkside Revan set
out to finally destroy his hated enemy, conducting
a ritual to restore the Emperor’s physical
body, making him vulnerable to attack.
But again a joint Republic and Imperial coalition
arrived to upset his plans engaging the Revanite
forces in the area.
Unfortunately, only the Emperor benefitted
from the massive loss of life that followed,
using their deaths to regain his strength,
allowing his consciousness to leave the planet
and continue his campaign to rule the galaxy.
In the end, Darkside Revan was defeated by
the coalition, which included two of his descendants
in Jedi Grand Master Satele Shan and her son
Theron Shan.
He was then confronted by his light side half
which convinced him to accept death and become
one with the force.
The 2 halves merged and Revan’s body disappeared,
leaving only his mask and lightsaber.
After his death, the former Jedi and Sith
Lord’s legacy continued on, influencing
both light and darkside users for thousands
of years.
His own descendants became powerful figures
in the republic and jedi order, while his
holocron and personal writings went to shape
the future of the Sith Order, with Darth Bane,
founder of the rule of 2 philosophy basing
much of his work on Revan’s teachings.
The Cross of glory earned for saving the Republic
was placed in a Republic Foundation Museum,
while his mask became a trophy for future
sith lords.